Roll No: CBSE2024020
Student Name: Anjali Chauhan

Q1(a): It makes communication easy. People can use mobile.

Q1(b): Privacy is lost and people get confused by so much information.

Q1(c): It is the gap between people who have technology and who dont have.

Q1(d): Inseperable

Q1(e): Digital Revolution

Q2(a): aabb

Q2(b): Personification

Q2(c): Mood is happy and nature is nice.

Q2(d): The last line says earth and sky meet at the end. It shows nature is one.

Q3:
17 February 2024

To,
The Editor,
The Times of India,
Jaipur

Subject: Pollution

Sir,

I want to tell about the pollution in our city. There is lots of smoke from vehicles and factory. People are getting ill. Government should do something and we should plant trees.

Yours faithfully,
Anjali Chauhan

Q4:
NOTICE
St. Xavier's Senior Secondary School
Annual Cultural Fest

Our school is organising cultural fest on 24 March 2024. All students are requested to take part in it. It will be in school hall.

Anjali Chauhan

Q5(a): She said that she was going to the market.

Q5(b): The naughty students were punished from the teacher.

Q5(c): He is so weak that he can not walk.

Q5(d): If you don't work hard you will fail.

Q5(e): Neither the students nor the teacher were present.

Q6(a): Franz is a careless schoolboy who does not like to study. When he learns that French will not be taught anymore, he feels sorry for wasting his time. He becomes serious and realises the value of his mother tongue.

Q6(b): Deep Water teaches that with hard work we can win our fear. Douglas nearly drowned but he did not give up.

Q7(a): Imagery is used in poem like the pale face of mother and children playing. It shows old age and youth.

Q7(b): Spender describes the plight of slum children whose life is full of poverty. The map and pictures in class are of a world they cannot reach, which shows the injustice in education.

Q7(c): The rattrap is a symbol of world temptations. The peddler stole money but Edla was kind to him so he change.

Q8: Gandhi went to Champaran to help farmers who were troubled by the British to grow indigo. This gave him confidence in satyagraha.
