Roll No: CBSE2024006
Student Name: Kavya Menon

Q1(a): Communication has become fast and easy, and people can now work and study online.

Q1(b): It has led to too much information, loss of privacy and a gap between the rich and the poor in access to technology.

Q1(c): It means the gap between those who have access to technology and those who don't.

Q1(d): Inseparable

Q1(e): The Digital Revolution and Its Effects

Q2(a): aabb

Q2(b): Personification

Q2(c): The mood of the poem is calm and peaceful, showing harmony with nature.

Q2(d): The last line shows earth and sky meeting at the horizon which symbolises unity of nature.

Q3:
9, Shivaji Nagar
Pune - 411005

12 March 2024

The Editor
The Tribune
Pune

Sir,

I want to draw your attention towards the increasing pollution in our city. The air and water are getting polluted day by day and it is harming people.

Smoke from vehicles and industries is the main cause. Children and old people are falling ill because of the dirty air.

The government should take strict action against polluting factories and people should use public transport and plant more trees. I hope you will publish my letter.

Yours faithfully,
Kavya Menon

Q4:
NOTICE
Sarvodaya Vidyalaya
Annual Cultural Fest

All students are informed that our school will organise the Annual Cultural Fest on 16 March 2024 at 10 a.m. in the school auditorium. There will be dance, singing and drama competitions. Interested students should give their names to me by 13 February 2024.

Kavya Menon
Head Girl

Q5(a): She said that she was going to the market.

Q5(b): The naughty students were punished by the teacher.

Q5(c): He is so weak that he cannot walk.

Q5(d): If you don't work hard you will fail.

Q5(e): Neither the students nor the teacher was present.

Q6(a): Franz is a careless schoolboy who does not like to study. When he learns that French will not be taught anymore, he feels sorry for wasting his time. He becomes serious and realises the value of his mother tongue.

Q6(b): The message of Deep Water is that we can overcome fear by determination and continuous effort. Douglas was afraid of water after he nearly drowned, but he practised with an instructor and learnt swimming.

Q7(a): The poet uses imagery like mother's face which is pale like the winter moon, young trees sprinting and children playing. These images show the contrast between old age and youth.

Q7(b):

Q7(c): In the story the rattrap stands for the temptations of the world. The peddler thinks world is a rattrap but he is caught himself. Edla treats him kindly and this changes him.

Q8: Champaran 1917 was the first satyagraha of Gandhi. He helped the indigo farmers by non-violence and they got relief.
