Roll No: CBSE2024026
Student Name: Divya Prabhu

Q1(a): Digital revolution made communication fast and people can also study online.

Q1(b): Privacy is lost and people get confused by so much information.

Q1(c): It means the gap between those who have access to technology and those who don't.

Q1(d): Indivisible

Q1(e): Digital Revolution

Q2(a): aabb

Q2(b): Personification

Q2(c): Poem has a calm mood and it shows nature.

Q2(d): The last line says earth and sky meet at the end. It shows nature is one.

Q3:
23 March 2024

The Editor
Hindustan Times
Bhopal

Subject: Rising pollution in Bhopal and the need for urgent action

Sir/Madam,

Through your newspaper I would like to share my concern about the growing pollution in our city which is affecting our health.

The main reasons are vehicles, factories and burning of garbage. Many people are suffering from cough and breathing problems because of this.

The government should take strict action against polluting factories and people should use public transport and plant more trees. I hope you will publish my letter.

Yours faithfully,
Divya Prabhu

Q4:
NOTICE
9 February 2024
Annual Cultural Fest

Our school is organising cultural fest on 27 March 2024. All students are requested to take part in it. It will be in school hall.

Divya Prabhu

Q5(a): She said she was going market.

Q5(b): Naughty students are punished by the teacher.

Q5(c): He is so weak that he can not walk.

Q5(d): If you don't work hard you will fail.

Q5(e): Neither the students nor the teacher was present.

Q6(a): Franz is a student of M. Hamel. He is not good in study and he feel bad on last day.

Q6(b): The message of Deep Water is that we can overcome fear by determination and continuous effort. Douglas was afraid of water after he nearly drowned, but he practised with an instructor and learnt swimming.

Q7(a):

Q7(b): The poem is about slum children who are poor and sad. They do not get good education and this is unfair.

Q7(c): In the story the rattrap stands for the temptations of the world. The peddler thinks world is a rattrap but he is caught himself. Edla treats him kindly and this changes him.

Q8: Gandhi went to Champaran to help farmers who were troubled by the British to grow indigo. This gave him confidence in satyagraha.
