Roll No: CBSE2024015
Student Name: Debashish Das

Q1(a): It has changed how people communicate and has made working and learning easier through online platforms.

Q1(b): It has led to too much information, loss of privacy and a gap between the rich and the poor in access to technology.

Q1(c): It is the gap between people who have technology and who dont have.

Q1(d): Inseparable

Q1(e): Impact of the Digital Revolution

Q2(a): aabb

Q2(b): Personification

Q2(c): The mood of the poem is calm and peaceful, showing harmony with nature.

Q2(d): The last line shows earth and sky meeting at the horizon which symbolises unity of nature.

Q3:
7, MG Road
Bengaluru - 560001

5 February 2024

The Editor
The Times of India
Bengaluru

Subject: Rising pollution in Bengaluru and the need for urgent action

Sir,

I want to draw your attention towards the increasing pollution in our city. The air and water are getting polluted day by day and it is harming people.

The main reasons are vehicles, factories and burning of garbage. Many people are suffering from cough and breathing problems because of this.

The government should take strict action against polluting factories and people should use public transport and plant more trees. I hope you will publish my letter.

Yours faithfully,
Debashish Das

Q4:
NOTICE
DAV Public School
9 February 2024
Annual Cultural Fest

All students are informed that our school will organise the Annual Cultural Fest on 20 March 2024 at 10 a.m. in the school auditorium. There will be dance, singing and drama competitions. Interested students should give their names to me by 20 February 2024.

Debashish Das
Head Boy

Q5(a): She said that she was going to the market.

Q5(b): The naughty students were punished by the teacher.

Q5(c): He is so weak that he cannot walk.

Q5(d): If you do not work hard, you will fail.

Q5(e): Neither the students nor the teacher was present.

Q6(a): Franz is a careless schoolboy who does not like to study. When he learns that French will not be taught anymore, he feels sorry for wasting his time. He becomes serious and realises the value of his mother tongue.

Q6(b): The lesson tells us that fear can be defeated with courage and hard work. Douglas feared water but with practice and will power he became a good swimmer.

Q7(a): The poet uses imagery like mother's face which is pale like the winter moon, young trees sprinting and children playing. These images show the contrast between old age and youth.

Q7(b):

Q7(c): The rattrap symbolises worldly temptations. The peddler is trapped when he steals money from the crofter. Edla's kindness frees him and he becomes a good man.

Q8: Champaran was Gandhi's first satyagraha. He fought for the indigo farmers in 1917 peacefully and disobeyed the order to leave. The landlords had to return some money, and non-violence was established as a method.
