Roll No: CBSE2024024
Student Name: Swati Mishra

Q1(a): Digital revolution made communication fast and people can also study online.

Q1(b): Privacy is lost and people get confused by so much information.

Q1(c): Digital divide means difference between rich and poor people in using technology.

Q1(d): Inseperable

Q1(e): Impact of the Digital Revolution

Q2(a): aabb

Q2(b): Metaphor

Q2(c): Poem has a calm mood and it shows nature.

Q2(d): The last line says earth and sky meet at the end. It shows nature is one.

Q3:
20 February 2024

To,
The Editor,
The Hindu,
Noida

Sir,

I want to tell about the pollution in our city. There is lots of smoke from vehicles and factory. People are getting ill. Government should do something and we should plant trees.

Yours faithfully,
Swati Mishra

Q4:
NOTICE
5 February 2024
Annual Cultural Fest

Our school is organising cultural fest on 16 March 2024. All students are requested to take part in it. It will be in school hall.

Swati Mishra
Head Girl

Q5(a): She said that she was going to the market.

Q5(b): The naughty students were punished from the teacher.

Q5(c): He is so weak that he can not walk.

Q5(d): If you do not work hard, you will fail.

Q5(e): Neither the students nor the teacher were present.

Q6(a): Franz was a careless boy who did not study. When French was banned he felt bad and wanted to learn it. He understood the value of language.

Q6(b): The message of Deep Water is that we can overcome fear by determination and continuous effort. Douglas was afraid of water after he nearly drowned, but he practised with an instructor and learnt swimming.

Q7(a): The poet uses imagery like mother's face which is pale like the winter moon, young trees sprinting and children playing. These images show the contrast between old age and youth.

Q7(b): Slum children are poor. They have no good school.

Q7(c): Peddler sold rattraps. Edla was kind to him.

Q8: Gandhi went to Champaran to help farmers who were troubled by the British to grow indigo. This gave him confidence in satyagraha.
