Roll No: CBSE2024028
Student Name: Riya Bhattacharya

Q1(a): It has changed how people communicate and has made working and learning easier through online platforms.

Q1(b): There is too much information and privacy problem. Some people also cannot use technology.

Q1(c): It is the gap between people who have technology and who dont have.

Q1(d): Inseparable

Q1(e): Internet and Mobile

Q2(a): abab

Q2(b): Personification

Q2(c): The mood is peaceful and calm because of nature.

Q2(d): The last line says earth and sky meet at the end. It shows nature is one.

Q3:
To,
The Editor,
Hindustan Times,
Hyderabad

Respected Sir,

I want to tell about the pollution in our city. There is lots of smoke from vehicles and factory. People are getting ill. Government should do something and we should plant trees.

Yours sincerely,
Riya Bhattacharya

Q4:
Notice
Cultural fest will be held on 18 March. All students come.
Riya Bhattacharya

Q5(a): She said that she was going to the market.

Q5(b): The naughty students were punished from the teacher.

Q5(c): He is so weak that he can not walk.

Q5(d): If you don't work hard you will fail.

Q5(e): Neither the students nor the teacher were present.

Q6(a): Franz is a student who was lazy in studies. On the last day he became serious because French was banned in school and he regret his mistakes.

Q6(b): The message of Deep Water is that we can overcome fear by determination and continuous effort. Douglas was afraid of water after he nearly drowned, but he practised with an instructor and learnt swimming.

Q7(a): The poet uses imagery like mother's face which is pale like the winter moon, young trees sprinting and children playing. These images show the contrast between old age and youth.

Q7(b): The poet shows poor condition of slum children in the school. There is social injustice with them.

Q7(c): The rattrap is a symbol of world temptations. The peddler stole money but Edla was kind to him so he change.

Q8: Gandhi went to Champaran to help farmers who were troubled by the British to grow indigo. This gave him confidence in satyagraha.
