Roll No: CBSE2024014
Student Name: Lakshmi Narayanan

Q1(a): Communication has become fast and easy, and people can now work and study online.

Q1(b): There is too much information and privacy problem. Some people also cannot use technology.

Q1(c): It means the gap between those who have access to technology and those who don't.

Q1(d): Inseparable

Q1(e): The Digital Revolution: Blessing or Curse?

Q2(a): aabb

Q2(b): Personification

Q2(c): The mood of the poem is calm and peaceful, showing harmony with nature.

Q2(d): The last line shows earth and sky meeting at the horizon which symbolises unity of nature.

Q3:
25 March 2024

The Editor
The Hindu
Bhopal

Subject: Rising pollution in Bhopal and the need for urgent action

Sir/Madam,

I want to draw your attention towards the increasing pollution in our city. The air and water are getting polluted day by day and it is harming people.

Smoke from vehicles and industries is the main cause. Children and old people are falling ill because of the dirty air.

I suggest that the authorities should make strict rules and the public should avoid plastic and plant trees. I hope you will publish my letter.

Yours faithfully,
Lakshmi Narayanan

Q4:
NOTICE
St. Xavier's Senior Secondary School
10 February 2024
Annual Cultural Fest

All students are informed that our school will organise the Annual Cultural Fest on 24 March 2024 at 10 a.m. in the school auditorium. There will be dance, singing and drama competitions. Interested students should give their names to me by 13 February 2024.

Lakshmi Narayanan
Head Girl

Q5(a): She said that she was going to the market.

Q5(b): The naughty students were punished by the teacher.

Q5(c): He is so weak that he can not walk.

Q5(d): If you do not work hard, you will fail.

Q5(e): Neither the students nor the teacher was present.

Q6(a): Franz is a young schoolboy in Alsace who is careless and fond of playing truant. He dreads M. Hamel's French class and has not learnt his participles. When the order comes from Berlin that only German will be taught, he is struck with remorse and realises how he wasted his time. He now wants to learn his language but it is too late. Franz symbolises how we take our mother tongue for granted until we are in danger of losing it, and he teaches us the value of one's language and culture.

Q6(b): The lesson tells us that fear can be defeated with courage and hard work. Douglas feared water but with practice and will power he became a good swimmer.

Q7(a): In the poem the mother's face is compared to a winter moon showing she is old and tired. The trees running and children playing show life and energy.

Q7(b): The poem shows social injustice in education. The slum children are poor, hungry and sad and they sit in a dirty classroom. The poet wants the society to help them.

Q7(c):

Q8: Champaran in 1917 marked the beginning of Gandhi's first satyagraha in India. He fought for the indigo farmers who were exploited by British planters and forced to give a major share of their produce. By peacefully disobeying the district authorities and gathering evidence from thousands of peasants, he forced the government to set up an inquiry and the farmers got relief. The episode established non-violence and civil disobedience as methods of struggle, gave Gandhi confidence and made him a leader of the masses, besides making the peasants fearless.
